1. Emergency Services: Priority queues can be used in emergency response systems to prioritize and dispatch emergency vehicles or medical services based on the severity of incidents.
2. Task Scheduling: In operating systems, a priority queue can be used to manage the scheduling of processes or tasks. Tasks with higher priority levels get executed before lower-priority ones.
3. Elevator Control: Elevator systems can prioritize elevator requests based on factors like floor urgency and passenger demand, using priority queues to optimize elevator operation.
4. Airport Runway Management: Air traffic control systems use priority queues to manage the allocation of runways and air traffic based on factors such as flight urgency and safety.
5. Disaster Response Planning: During natural disasters, priority queues can be used to coordinate and prioritize the dispatch of rescue and relief teams to affected areas based on the severity of the situation.


1. Problem Solving: Data structures are essential tools for solving a wide range of computational problems. They provide a systematic way to represent and manipulate data, making problem-solving more structured and manageable.
2. Memory Management: Data structures help in efficient memory management. By organizing data in specific ways, they can minimize memory usage, reduce fragmentation, and optimize memory allocation.
3. Efficient Data Organization: Data structures provide efficient ways to organize and store data. They enable the storage of data in a structured format, allowing for easy access, modification, and retrieval.


Analyzing the complexity of recursive functions involves determining how the function's time and space requirements grow as a function of the input size. 
suppose consider the code for a function in c for factorial:
int factorial(int n) {
    if (n <= 1) {
        return 1;
    }
    return n * factorial(n - 1);
}

Time Complexity:
As the function calls itself recursively for n times till n<=1, Time complexity of the factorial function is O(n) 

The space complexity is determined by the maximum depth of the recursive call stack. In this case, the maximum depth is n (when n is the largest input). Therefore, the space complexity is O(n).

